Title: Translation Project meeting minutes
Date: 2012-10-07 01:05
Author: admin
Category: General
Slug: translation-project-meeting-minutes
Status: published

An hour ago [the meeting](https://live.gnome.org/TranslationProject/Events/IRCMeeting20121006 "Wiki page on GNOME's wiki for the IRC meeting") was over, here is a small resumé:

[The GNOME Translation Project](https://live.gnome.org/TranslationProject "Wiki page of the GNOME Translation Project") met for  around **3 hours long** ((Thanks a lot to all of you who showed up and made such a great and fun meeting!!)) to discuss on how to improve the translation story on GNOME, make it better just like GNOME is getting better :)

## Topics discussed

GNOME 3.6 looked good (translation wise) some concerns were:

- hard to test due to distributions not being updated enough
- we hope that GNOME testing initiative (aka GNOME OS) improves by next release :)
- some QA guidelines were thought as needed to do translation testing

New design of <http://l10n.gnome.org>

- the RTL situation is not really good but Arab translators will provide screenshots on how to fix it (help needed thought)

Switching D-L to only show words

- strong arguments on both sides, more discussion, mockups or subteams working on proposals would help changing things (if there's a need for it at all)

Next IRC meeting

- Gabor volunteers to run it one for next month, we will get news from him soon hopefully :)

Accelerators on app menus (the thing on the GNOME Shell bar)

- translators feel uncomfortable with the situation, lots of modules with accelerators, lots of other modules without
- will try to get attention from designers and developers to have clear guidelines (if possible)

Doing another survey for coordinators

- still not clear what we want to ask to ourselves (a bit philosophical this one :D)
- some mail will be sent to this list asking about ideas

Dropping docbook (documentation) translations

- Gabor volunteered to ask documentation team about their plans

Splitting the big GNOME module set

- everyone agrees that we have to move it forward, lots of technical details and design decisions to be made though
- where to put the line on splitting modules
- what to use as the mighty 80%

Dead modules

- that's a big concern we all have, how to make sure translators don't waste time translating modules that are not maintained or used
- idea of making D-L send mails to warn maintainers and translators about a module not being updated/released during a GNOME cycle (6 months)
- some git sorcery is needed to make D-L work, volunteers welcomed :)
- Piotr made a new list of dead modules: <https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=685632>
- discussed some way to make translators aware of it on D-L itself (showing some sort of banner or warning)

That's roughly it :)

Happy translating!
